# Bash Scripts -- Used to Control/Manage System Parts on a Linux Debian Environment
Well tested Bash scripts that control/manage computer and system parts on a Linux Debian system. Those are free programs released under the GNU v3 license (released with NO WARRANTY, see license for details). The scripts are well commented and explain every step, but following is a summary of what each script does.

## About the Scripts
* **Battery Monitor (powerzz)**: this program will attempt to monitor battery levels and hibernate/shutdown the computer when the battery is close to be drained. This program relies on use of cron for scheduling battery checks. When battery reaches a low level (15%), a GUI pop-up will warn user about it. When battery reaches a critical level (7%) another GUI pop-up will appear and give the user the option of hibernating or doing nothing; if user doesn't choose in 30 seconds, the computer hibernates automatically. Battery levels are checked three times every minute. If user dismisses the critical battery warning, then there will be no more warnings until after a reboot or after the computer was (temporarily or not) recharged again. Users are able to choose from a GUI interface whether to turn on or off the battery monitor altogether, and whether the action should be hibernate (default) or shutdown.
* **Brightness Control (brightzz)**: this program will attempt to control the brightness of your screen. This program is customized to every specific computer where it is installed, thus values below should be updated to specific cases. This program should be made bound to keybords key(s), as to allow user direct keyboard control (research 'keybinding').
* **Encrypt File Folder (encryptzz)**: this program will attempt to encrypt files or folders using the program p7zip capabilities (AES 256). Generally this program appears as an option in the right-click menu when clicking on a file or folder. The password is entered in a terminal window that appears and is not echoed. Program checks for name collisions and asks about overwriting on a GUI pop-up. In the end both the encrypted as well the original file are kept on the folder.
* **Secure Delete (shredzz)**: this program will attempt to securely delete files and folders (with overwritting, so that they can't be "undeleted"), using the capabilities of the program secure-delete. This program uses a two pass overwrite (for speed purposes), but that can be modified to as little as one pass and as many as the Gutmann's method recommends (way above old DoD guidelines). This program was made to appear as an option in the right-click menu when clicking on a file or folder. A GUI pop-up instructs the user about options and files/folders that can't be deleted (system files), and it won't work if user doesn't have the right permissions to delete the file/folder.
* **Sync Folders (synczz)**: this program will attempt to synchronize the content of two directories, making one directory the exact duplicate of the other (i.e.: both will have the same subdirectories and files). A GUI pop-up (zenity) will alert you in case of success and present the number of items synchronized. In case of any failure a GUI pop-up will open alongside with a log page with the error. This program only runs for an specific user, in this case user "owner" (that can be modified). Logs are created with date on the their names.
* **Update and Shutdown (upshutzz)**: this program will attempt to automatically update OS & programs (without human assist) and then shutdown your computer. This program is intended to be used when user will shutdown computer, as they can just select this program and leave the machine unassisted while it updates and then shuts down. The update version used is the gentlier 'upgrade' command (as opposed to 'dist-upgrade') which will only update existing packages, but will not install new (not previously installed) packages (lesser chance of system failure after botched update). That can be changed by using 'dist-upgrade' instead. This program will update all programs (including third parties) that have added their repository address on the OS (all Debian programs plus many third party ones). The program will also check for the flash plug-in and update it if installed. This program saves results of the updates in dated logs located at /var/log/apt/upshutzz. A GUI interface appears to explain options and inform the user when the program is launched. Before the program perform the updates, it will look for and fix possible broken packages or failed past installations before proceeding.
* **Wireless Radios On (radiozz)**: the radiozz program will attempt to turn on all wireless radios (wi-fi, bluetooth, etc) available on your computer. This program is useful when troubleshooting wireless radios, or to make sure that there's no software block on the radios. After finishing, the program will shutdown the computer because sometimes a reboot is needed for formerly blocked radios to work. The program logs the results and status of radios on a log at /var/log/zz4-radiozz.txt
* **Hardware OS Report (hwreportzz)**: this program will attempt to report on some of your computer's OS and hardware characteristics and run some hardware tests. The report is stored in a file located at /var/log/zz4-hwreport.txt.
* **Sound Keybinding (keybindsoundzz)**: this program will attempt to key bind some of your keyboad/computer keys/buttons to work with sound volume. The program inserts the keybinding at an specific location of the openbox keybinding master file for the user ('owner' in this case) and OS default. If keybind of sound already exists, or if the keybind fails, the program will exit and inform that in a GUI pop-up.
* **Sound Troubleshooting (alsazz)**: this program will attempt to unmute and set volumes on different channels on your computer. This program is useful to troubleshoot/fix computers with sound problems.

### Bash Scripts Author
Jamil Said Jr -- Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Jamil Said Jr
